---
layout: post
title: Overcoming Web Development Challenges
---
Learning web development has been an incredibly satisfying experience, due in no small part to how challenging it is. Writing good code is a skill that takes a ton of time to learn. The first functions I wrote for Bloc were very simple, information was very easy to understand and use. As the program has ramped up I've had to learn strategies for solving harder problems and writing more complex functions. The most challenging of these so far have been able to stump me for a few days while I'm writing and rewriting code and Googling everything that could possibly lead me to a solution. Whenever I get stuck on something like that I've learned to just keep on trying different approaches, to never be stubborn and never try to force my first approach to work. Regrouping and rethinking the problem always leads to a greater understanding of what needs to happen. Failure is not necessarily a bad thing when programming as long as you understand exactly why your approach failed. When I can clearly understand why my thought process was flawed I know I'm very close to a workable solution. Sometimes the solution ends up being totally different than my first approach, and sometimes I misplace a single semi-colon or curly brace. Good debugging is an important skill to learn in its own right to solve problems and write good code, and can be very challenging. Finding the issues in my own code no matter how big or small can take a lot of time and require an understanding of how chunks of my code do look and how they should look, always down to the character. Large problems are often better than small ones, glaring errors can be easily spotted and fixed whereas missing/extra characters can go unnoticed for hours. Debugging can be very frustrating, no more so then when everything looks perfect. Many times I've sworn up and down I have the solution to a problem and that the error MUST be with whichever website or program I'm using, it simply can't be with my "perfect" code. Always, inevitably, on the umpteenth review of my code I'll find the culprit. There are always mixed emotions when I finally fix that fatal error. I'm always glad to be done with debugging and have a finished solution, while also livid I spent six hours hunting down some parentheses out of place.
