---
layout: post
title: Javascript
---
The majority of my time at Bloc has been focussed on learning to understand and write great Javascript code. My first encounter with Javascript came a few months before I started my Bloc program, when I completed some courses on Codeacademy. This first experience was very basic and essentially held my hand through Javascript syntax and simple functions, and any coding was essentially copy&paste. Bloc started off teaching Javascript the same way, but after a week or so stepped up the difficulty immensely. Instead of tutorial lessons I was simply given instructions for functions that I could code any way I wanted so long as everything checked out. This was a strange challenge at first, every Javascript lesson I'd had required me to write no more than a couple lines of code, and now I'm building functions from scratch. My mentor emphasized that about 90% of my time would be spent Googling and he was not kidding, I regularly had a dozen or more tabs open trying to understand how each individual piece of code fits together as part of the whole function. This experience was frustrating and exhausting and immensely rewarding. I quickly gained a solid foundation for learning more advanced and complex Javascript and started to write simple functions with ease. As I began my first web project with Bloc, I started to use Javascript in new ways. This was my first experience using code to manipulate elements on a web page I had built, which added a whole new level of complexity. As well as gradually building up the functionality of web pages, I regularly did coding challenges on websites such as Codewars and Coderbyte as part of the Bloc curriculum and on my own to beef up my Javascript skills. Not only my coding skills but my research skills improved, as well as my overall understanding of how the language works. It was incredibly satisfying to watch my first web pages come together, and get full functionality from intertwined functions I built from scratch. Im looking forward to my future projects and my time at Bloc, with the eventual goal of using my Javascript skills to switch careers and make some real changes in my life.
