---
layout: post
title: My Bloc Learning Experience
---
The Bloc program has been a learning experience unlike any I've had before. Bloc's culture of self-reliance and learning through trial and error is very different from the public school environment I grew up in, and I am loving it. In school I got used to teachers handing out exactly the information I needed, and explaining the proper ways to approach every kind of test question imaginable. "Teaching for the test" was the norm due to standardized tests ruling public school funding, and made learning very cookie-cutter and frankly, incredibly boring. Bloc on the other hand treats programming as a personal discipline, meaning I am totally in charge of my learning. Googling and finding good information from outside the curriculum is encouraged, and assignments can be solved in any number of ways. Instead of a teacher and a full classroom of other students, I have regular 1 on 1 meetings with a mentor always ready to answer questions and guide me in the right direction. Personally, I like the Bloc approach much better. If I need to talk to my mentor I can at any time, and I can also go days without contacting him at all if there's no need. All of these factors combine to make Bloc a unique learning experience, and one I truly enjoy. I recently finished my first large Bloc project and was all smiles when I saw how every little line of code came together. Listening to music play off of a page I coded was unbelievably satisfying, especially knowing how many hairs I must've pulled out in the previous few weeks. I'm looking forward to the rest of my time with Bloc because I know I'll continue to learn the skills I need to be a developer, while building some more really cool projects.
